Add migration doc for the parsec-server (#5739)
Scille/parsec-cloud: docs/adminguide/migration/index.rst

.. Parsec Cloud (https://parsec.cloud) Copyright (c) BUSL-1.1 2016-present Scille SAS

.. _doc_adminguide_server_migration:

.. cspell:words linenos literalinclude

=======================
Parsec Server migration
=======================

This guide covers the migration procedure for the `Parsec`_ server (also called `parsec-backend`).

.. note::

  We consider that you are using the same infrastructure configuration as in the :ref:`Parsec Server installation guide <doc_adminguide_hosting>`.
  Adapt this guide to your own situation.

.. _Parsec: https://parsec.cloud

Updating to a newer version
***************************

.. warning::

  Before updating to a newer version, we make sure to back up the database,
  in case you need to roll back the update.

In this guide, we will migrate ``parsec-backend`` from version ``v2.15.0`` to ``v2.16.0``.

.. _update_docker_image_tag:

1. Update the ``parsec-backend``'s docker image tag of in docker-compose file (``parsec-server.docker.yaml``):

  .. code-block:: yaml
    :linenos:
    :emphasize-lines: 5

    services:
      # ...

      parsec-backend:

>         image: ghcr.io/scille/parsec-cloud/parsec-backend-server:v2.15.0

Author: Yes, it does not exist and will not (cf: https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5739#discussion_r1389039755)

        # ...

  You need to change the used tag (at line **5**) to ``v2.16.0``.

> 2. List the migration that will be applied:

Author: The user need to check for what ?

> 2. List the migration that will be applied:

Reviewer: Check that the list of pending migrations makes sense, but this is also fine with me:
```suggestion
2. List the pending migrations to be applied:
```

  .. code-block:: bash

    docker compose -f parsec-server.docker.yaml run parsec-backend migrate --dry-run

>   The output will look like this:

Reviewer 2: Below we say that is not the exact output, so I'd use "should" here
```suggestion
  The output should look like this:
```

  .. code-block::

    0001_initial.sql (already applied)
    0002_add_migration_table.sql (already applied)
    0003_human_handle.sql (already applied)
    0004_invite.sql (already applied)
    0005_redacted_certificates.sql (already applied)
    0006_outsider_enabled.sql (already applied)
    0007_users_limit.sql (already applied)
    0008_apiv1_removal.sql (already applied)
    0009_add_realm_user_change_table.sql (already applied)
    0010_add_pki_certificate_table.sql (already applied)
    0011_add_sequester_tables.sql (already applied)
    0012_add_sequester_webhook.sql (already applied)
    0013_add_shamir_recovery.sql (already applied)
    0014_add_realm_archiving.sql (already applied)
    0015_some_new_feature.sql (already applied)

>     0016_some_new_feature_2.sql ✔

Author: > This output is provided as an example. Don't expect it to match your output.

:stuck_out_tongue:

>     0016_some_new_feature_2.sql ✔

Reviewer: Still, those `some_new_feature` migrations look weird

>     0016_some_new_feature_2.sql ✔

Author: done

  .. note::

    This output is provided as an example. Don't expect it to match your output.

>   The line ending with ``already applied`` are migration already present on the database
>   whereas the one ending with ``✔`` are migration to be applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The lines ending with ``already applied`` are migrations already present on the database
  whereas the one ending with ``✔`` are migrations to be applied.
```

3. Apply the database migration:

  .. code-block:: bash

    docker compose -f parsec-server.docker.yaml run parsec-backend migrate

.. _restart_parsec_backend_container:

4. Restart the ``parsec-backend`` container:

  .. code-block:: bash

    docker compose -f parsec-server.docker.yaml restart parsec-backend

Rollback to a previous version
******************************

.. warning::

>   **YOU WILL LOSE DATA**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

That's already a warning, maybe the `YOU WILL LOSE DATA` statement is a bit too strong

Author: Here I clearly want to emphasis that the user will lose data by doing a rollback

Reviewer: I still think it's a bit too strong

Author: done

.. _Parsec: https://parsec.cloud

Updating to a newer version
***************************

.. warning::

  Before updating to a newer version, we make sure to back up the database,
  in case you need to roll back the update.

In this guide, we will migrate ``parsec-backend`` from version ``v2.15.0`` to ``v2.16.0``.

.. _update_docker_image_tag:
1. Update the ``parsec-backend``'s docker image tag of in docker-compose file (``parsec-server.docker.yaml``):

  .. code-block:: yaml
    :linenos:
    :emphasize-lines: 5

    services:
      # ...

      parsec-backend:
        image: ghcr.io/scille/parsec-cloud/parsec-backend-server:v2.15.0
        # ...

  You need to change the used tag (at line **5**) to ``v2.16.0``.

2. Apply the database migration:

  .. code-block:: bash

    docker-compose compose -f parsec-server.docker.yaml run parsec-backend migrate

.. _restart_parsec_backend_container:
3. Restart the ``parsec-backend`` container:

  .. code-block:: bash

    docker-compose compose -f parsec-server.docker.yaml restart parsec-backend

Rollback to a previous version
******************************

.. warning::

  **YOU WILL LOSE DATA**

>   Rollback is currently limited in parsec.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Rollback is currently limited in Parsec.
```
